okay let me teach you about this odd
thing what is used in a lot of different
ways and in different projects but
before we get into all the videos of a
as it's used let's start with what
authors actually created for the
original intended use first of all you
can guess from the name
what has something to do with that the
question is does the art here a mean
authentication or authorization well the
short answer is what is meant for
authorization and not authentication
okay also more importantly what was
originally created not for a service to
authorize a person it was meant for a
service to authorize another service now
you might go come on Kasich are you
crazy
why would a service were not authorized
with another service hmm well first of
all good question
secondly don't call me crazy okay okay
well let me explain what I mean let's
take this classic example off of photo
printing service you must have seen
websites like this where you give them
an image file and you pay them to ship
printed photos to your home address
imagine you're starting a new photo
printing business that lets people
upload photos to your website and they
can order prints of these photos have
you code your website and apply then
people sign up everything is good
but here is the thing nobody keeps
photos on their machines anymore they
use the cloud and so you keep getting
this feature request to provide users
the ability to import their photos from
somewhere like Google Drive and then
print it directly from there without the
users having to download and upload
again okay that's a fair ask now what do
you have to do to implement this import
from Google Drive feature in your
application you need to connect to the
users Google Drive account and access
their files but wait
how can your application do that the
users files on Google Drive need Google
authentication how can you write code
for your website that can authenticate
with Google on behalf of your users well
here's something you can do you can ask
the user for their Google ID and
password you can say hey user do you
want me to print your photos on Google
look Google doesn't give me access so
here's my screen where you enter your
Google ID and password you just give
them to me I will log into your Google
account and access your photos and print
them will this work well it'll work in
theory do you think users will find you
their Google ID and password are you
kidding me no they probably won't why
because they don't trust you
what they want to give you is access to
just certain photos they don't wanna
give you access to their whole Google
Drive and email and everything else
right now you can say no to your user I
promise to access just your files that
you mentioned and I promise to throw out
the password after I'm done I'm totally
not saving that but there's no guarantee
that this service is gonna do that so
well this works in theory this is not
practical now we can say Google Drive
has a share feature you can ask the user
to share the files out and then give the
link to them in your service but there
are problems here what if the users
don't want to share files out to anyone
also what if it's a different scenario
where sharing isn't an option for
example think of the scenario where your
service wants to access the list of your
users friends to send invites to the
application there's no way you can ask
the user to share their address book
such a feature just doesn't exist so how
do you have a third party service
authorize with the Google address book
service as your user without the user
providing their credentials well this is
where Roth comes in to solve this
problem of services trying to access
each other on behalf of the user
there was the standard created called
OAuth there was a version 1.0 of the
standard what 1.0 but the current
version is the most widely used this is
OAuth 2.0 this and the subsequent videos
in the series when I say OAuth just
assume that I'm referring to auth 2.0
okay that's the most widely you
version today okay so how does it work
a very commonly used analogy that's used
to help people understand what is this
valet key model for cars let me explain
you must have heard of parking
attendants are valleys I'll be honest I
haven't met them myself I'm definitely
not rich enough to have my car parked by
a valley but I've heard of them the idea
is this rich guy drives up to a parking
garage and he gets down and hands his
key to the valet and say hey mr. wellick
guy can you please park this car for me
he may not say it so nicely but this is
the message that will be conveyed and
the valet takes the key drives the car
finds a parking spot and parks the car
there okay but here's the thing
rich people drive expensive cars okay
they carry expensive things so what if a
malicious Valley takes the car keys and
takes the car for a long long drive or
opens a trunk or glove compartment and
looks at what's inside it's reasonable
for the car owner to be hesitant to hand
over the car keys to the valley so this
is why some cars come with an additional
key called the valet key the valet key
is just like the main car key but with
reduced access this valet key can start
and stop the car but it cannot open the
trunk or the glove compartment it cannot
open the fuel tank you know restrictions
like that if a car owner has such a key
there would be more open to giving that
to the valet because they know that the
valley cannot do a whole lot with that
key apart from the intended purpose so
here the car owner this person is using
to services the car service and the
valet service and the valet service
needs access to the car service directly
to do the job so rather than give the
complete credentials of the car service
to the valet service rather than giving
the master key to the valet service the
car owner gives reduced or limited
access to the car service by providing
the valet key this is similar to how
what works
or in general is an authorization
mechanism where services can
but rise against each other on your
behalf once you have given them
permission this is often referred to as
delegated access for this very reason
it's also an open standard by the way
and obviously needs to be because
multiple services all over the internet
need to talk to each other so there is a
spec that all these services need to
follow so that they understand each
other when they talk there is a certain
flow that needs to happen as well for
this whole process to work and this is
called the OAuth flow yourself that flow
works let's take our photo printing
example you have a service here that
needs to access Google Drive we have a
user who's logged into both your photo
printing service and to Google each
service trust the user but they don't
trust each other the problem is you want
these two things to work with each other
ok can yours photo printing service go
to Google and say hey can I access this
users files
well the Google service is obviously
gonna say I don't know you go away
however if both these services have
aurat implemented the situation is a
little different your service when it
goes to Google and says hey I need this
users files Google does something
interesting it goes to the user and says
look here man there is this service
that's been bugging me saying it wants
to access some of your files is that
legit do you trust it see here is the
list of things that the service wants to
do shall I go ahead and allow it the
user sees the screen that says who is
asking for access to that users Google
account and what are the lists of
permissions that that service once now
if the user is a person who's trying to
print the photo they will look at this
and go okay this is all correct please
allow access now google says okay my
user is verified and allowed these
permissions ok service you can have
access and Google gives the service a
key token called an authorization token
that contains just the allowed
permissions think of this as a valet key
it's a key with limited access limited
permissions the photo printing services
okay cool I'm gonna save this and now
every time the photo printing service
needs to access Google Drive it just
hands this token to the request and says
I need access to this file
here is the stokin you gave me which has
user verified access
to these permissions let me in Google
looks at that token and saying okay this
is legit this is the token that I handed
last time so you can access this and
with this token the service has limited
access to your Google account and a high
level this is the flow you might have
seen these screens from Facebook or
Google asking for permissions this is
basically what this is the screen says
okay this ABC service is trying to
access my service on your behalf
should I let it in once you accept an
access token has handed to that service
which allows future access so there you
don't have to keep clicking allow every
time now what does this access token
look like it has to be a token that
contains information about all the
allowed permissions and it also needs to
be something that the service can verify
if you create a token yourself and give
it to Google it'll obviously not take up
it has to be a secure token that Google
itself has created and given you can you
guess what's a token that can contain
data within it but it's also secure so
that it can be verified and it cannot be
modified yes it's a token format called
JWT check out this tutorial to learn
everything you need to know about JWT
and now that you know how this flow
works it's also obvious to see why what
is used for authorization and not
authentication in this case the user is
actually authenticated to both these
services already right the problem being
solved is not authentication the problem
being solved is how to authorize one
service with another not that you know
the high level purpose and flow of or
it's time to dive deep into the keep
terminologies of what that you really
need to understand as well as look at
the flowing in a detail check out this
tutorial where I explain all the
terminology is involved and I teach you
how each step in this water flow works
in much more detail and I'll see you
there
[Music]